Battleship Manual:

Getting Started:

	Start up this simulation by either selecting to connect to another player, or wait for a player
	to connect to you. Upon either selection. If you choose to wait for a player and host the game,
	the game will then prompt you to select your board, your desired username, your port, and your 
	IP address. If you choose to connect to another player, the game will prompt you to select you 
	board, your desired username, the other user's port and IP address. Your board and the other
	user's board must be the same size. Specifications for the board can be found below under "Board
	Specifications." Once the steps above have been completed, you can begin the game by pressing 
	the "I'm Ready Let's Go!" button. Once both players have ready'd up, the actual game will begin.
	When it is your turn to shoot, you will see a blank board representing your opponents board. Make
	a shot on your opponent by pressing a grid on the board. If you hit a shit, you will see a fire
	ball, if you miss a shot you will see a water splash. Be careful when it is your turn to shoot,
	as you only have a limited amount of time that can be seen in the timer in the bottom right corner.
	If do not make a shot in time, your opponent will automatically win. This game will end when one
	of the users has successfully hit all of their opponents ships. At this time, the game will display
	the name of the winning player and ask if you would like to play another game. A user earns a point
	if they win the game, and the score is recorded in the bottom toolbar next to the users names. 
	If you choose to play again you may change your board, and if both users do so, you can also change 
	the size of the board you both have chosen (just remember they have to be the same size). A new board 
	can be loaded by navigating to the "Options" button in the upper left corner and pressing "Load board". 
	You can also load a new board by pressing "ctrl" + "l", or pressing the load board icon in the upper 
	toolbar. You can easily exit this game by clicking the "Options" button and then pressing the "Quit" 
	button. You can also leave the game by pressing "ctrl" + "q" or the exit icon in the upper toolbar.

	
Settings:
	To reconfigure the default settings for this game, head on over to the settings window. You can do this 
	by either pressing the "Settings" option in the "Options" drop down menu, pressing the settings icon 
	in the toolbar, or by simply pressing "ctrl" + "w" to access the settings window quickly. Once you are there, 
	you now have the option to change your username, dimensions of the board, the number of time you have to 
	take a shot on your opponent, and the colors throughout your game. If you would like the colors you 
	pressed to be used going forward, make sure you press the "Show" button before saving your preferences and 
	exiting out of the window.

	
Board Specifications:
	In the Battleship game, you have three board size options: 10x10, 9x9, and 8x8. The number of ships
	and the type of ships for each board goes as follows:
	
	Types of boards:
		•Carrier- 		Size of 4
		•Battleship- 		Size of 3
		•Cruiser/Submarine- 	Size of 2
		•Destroyer- 		Size of 1

	Number of ships per board size:
	
		10x10:
			1 Carrier
			2 Battleships
			3 Cruisers/Submarine
			4 Destroyers 

		9x9:
			3 Carrier
			5 Battleships
			0 Cruisers/Submarine
			0 Destroyers 

		8x8:
			1 Carrier
			3 Battleships
			3 Cruisers/Submarine
			0 Destroyers 

	Ship Placement:
		You must place your ships carefully. Ships are not allowed to place ships and have them hang over
		board, as this will result in an error. Unlike normal Battleship, this version allows you to place
		ships next to each other, allowing them touch to increase difficulty, however you may not place
		ships on top of each other. Intersecting ships will also result in an hour. You must also meet the
		Requirements above or else the program will send an error. You may enter your ships in a board 
		by typing them in a text file and loading it into the game. The format for your text file is as
		follows:
			
			Size, Size
			Ship Size, Initial X coordinate, Initial Y coordinate, Orientation

		An example of a text file is as follows:

			10, 10
			4, 2, 4, Horizontal
			3, 1, 0, Vertical
			3, 4, 8, Vertical
			2, 0, 2, Horizontal
			2, 9, 5, Horizontal
			2, 8, 9, Vertical
			1, 1, 9, Horizontal
			1, 5, 2, Vertical
			1, 6, 5, Vertical
			1, 9, 0, Horizontal
		
		Examples of more boards can be found in the board folder.




